Dear Editor,

We would like you to thank you for consdering our article about easy
access to X-ray images and thanks referees for their work. Please find the
new version, containing minor modification, specifying how metadata are managed
within the library, as those were the main concerns of the referees.

Please find hereafter a detailed answer for the referees:

As mentioned in the introduction of the article, FabIO is a side-product of the 
authors' work on other subject related to the analysis of images coming from
synchrotrons  and laboratory sources, especially diffraction data and microscopy
data. As such FabIO sees new features added when they are needed; this is why
we have no plans for a full-release as suggested by Referee #1. On the other
hand, we  increment the minor version number to keep track of the changes. A
comprehensive  test-suite prevents regression between versions. We wish to
publish this work  even if the version number of Fabio is “only” 0.1, renaming
it artificially  to 1.0 would have little sense for our user community.

Both referees mentioned concerns about metadata management. We modified the 
section 2.3 accordingly, but here a more comprehensive answer is given. 

Metadata can be split in three categories: 
1) metadata related to how image is stored (dimensions, compression, data type, endianness …)
2) metadata related to the experimental setup (wavelength, goniometer, image orientation)
3) other metadata like sample description as free-form text.  
All metadata are stored together in a single python dictionary (img.header)
which can be modified in place and further written to the disk, if FabIO knows
how to write this format.  

As metadata from first category are read and interpreted to be able to further
decode the array on the disk, those metadata are usually re-generated at write
time in order to ensure the image file freshly written will be readable and
consistent.   

For metdata of the third type, no translation is usually needed and the only
problem the user could encounter is if the output format does not allow such 
“free-type” format (like PNM files for example).  

We believe most concern of the referees are related to the second type of
metadata as they are essential to interpret the data. In diffraction, such
metadata refer often to goniometer geometry hence translating such metadata
would be equivalent to translate any goniometer to any other goniometer with
possibly a different number of circles !     

The purpose of FabIO is to read data (especially the array) and optionally to
write them. Translation of formats, even if FabIO makes it easier, is not the
main goal of the library and, we believe, is not achievable considering the number of
image formats, the number of goniometer geometries, the various orientation of
the camera and the versatility of synchrotron beamlines (where setup and
metadata are likely to change every week). 

Some solutions for unifying geometries have been proposed by IUCr with imgCIF;
but the NeXus committee proposes other conventions and other communities have
yet other conventions (CanSAS, electron microscopy, … ). We understand the need of
scientists aiming at translating image from one format to another; but such a
“turn-key solution” is impossible to write and we can only provide a tool
helping them to write this translator. The scientist is the only one knowing all
the details of the input setup and the output setup, hence the only one able
write this translator for his specific case.       
